---
title: libevent基础用法
date: 2020-04-04 12:57:52
tags: 
    - linux C/C++
    - 事件驱动
    - 网络编程
categories: libevent
---




## 创建event_base

`event_base`时libevent中的核心数据结构。其负责在event active 时，调用相应的 callback处理 event。
另外，每个`event_base`对应一个 thread，所以，对于我们一般使用libevent而言，如果需要多线程支持，可能需要为每个单独的线程创建一个`event_base`。

`event_base`内部通过IO Multiplexing（libevent中称之为 backend）来实现事件的dispatch。常用的有：
- select
- poll
- epoll
- kqueue
- devpoll
- evport
- win32

我们可以通过设置环境变量来禁用指定的backend。例：设置名为`EVENT_NOKQUEUE`的环境变量以禁用kqueue。
也可以用过`event_config_avoid_method()`来实现。


### 创建一个默认的event_base
The `event_base_new()` function allocates and returns a new event base with the default settings. It examines the environment variables and returns a pointer to a new event_base. If there is an error, it returns `NULL`.
```c++
#include <event2/event.h>
struct event_base *event_base_new(void);
```


### 根据event_config创建event_base
有时，我们需要更多的控制`event_base`，就需要使用`event_config`了。

```c++
#include <event2/event.h>
struct event_config *event_config_new(void);
struct event_base *event_base_new_with_config(const struct event_config *cfg);
void event_config_free(struct event_config *cfg);
```
根据函数名就能看出其作用了，就不做多解释了。

```c++
#include <event2/event.h>
int event_config_avoid_method(struct event_config *cfg, const char *method);

enum event_method_feature {
    EV_FEATURE_ET = 0x01,       //使backend支持 edge-triggered 
    EV_FEATURE_O1 = 0x02,       //告知backend，其只有一个event
    EV_FEATURE_FDS = 0x04,      //告知backend，其支持多种文件描述符，不仅仅只有socket
};
int event_config_require_features(struct event_config *cfg,
                                  enum event_method_feature feature);

enum event_base_config_flag {
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_NOLOCK = 0x01,          //不为event_base设置锁，设置后，要小心写代码。
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_IGNORE_ENV = 0x02,      //忽略环境变量
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_STARTUP_IOCP = 0x04,    //windows only ign
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_NO_CACHE_TIME = 0x08,   //每次超时回调后，更新当前事件。而不是在事件循环开始前更新
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_EPOLL_USE_CHANGELIST = 0x10,    //
    EVENT_BASE_FLAG_PRECISE_TIMER = 0x20
};
int event_config_set_flag(struct event_config *cfg,
    enum event_base_config_flag flag);
```
Calling `event_config_avoid_method()` tells Libevent to avoid a specific available backend by name. Calling `event_config_require_feature()` tells Libevent not to use any backend that cannot supply all of a set of features. Calling `event_config_set_flag()` tells Libevent to set one or more of the run-time flags below when constructing the event base.


- `EVENT_BASE_FLAG_EPOLL_USE_CHANGELIST`
    Tells Libevent that, if it decides to use the epoll backend, it is safe to use the faster "changelist"-based backend. The epoll-changelist backend can avoid needless system calls in cases where the same fd has its status modified more than once between calls to the backend’s dispatch function, but it also trigger a kernel bug that causes erroneous results if you give Libevent any fds cloned by `dup()` or its variants. This flag has no effect if you use a backend other than epoll. You can also turn on the epoll-changelist option by setting the `EVENT_EPOLL_USE_CHANGELIST` environment variable.

- `EVENT_BASE_FLAG_PRECISE_TIMER`
    By default, Libevent tries to use the fastest available timing mechanism that the operating system provides. If there is a slower timing mechanism that provides more fine-grained timing precision, this flag tells Libevent to use that timing mechanism instead. If the operating system provides no such slower-but-more-precise mechanism, this flag has no effect.

## event_loop

## add event

## Utility and portability functions

## Bufferevents

## Evbuffers: utility functionality for buffered IO

## Connection listeners: accepting TCP connections